Typeclasses default mode (#14103)
coq/coq: doc/sphinx/addendum/type-classes.rst

   Like any command declaring a record, this command supports the
   :attr:`universes(polymorphic)`, :attr:`universes(template)`,
   :attr:`universes(cumulative)`, and :attr:`private(matching)`
   attributes. In addition, it supports the :attr:`mode` attribute.

   .. attr:: mode

      Sets the resolution mode of the class

>       at declaration time, using the same syntax as :cmd:`Hint Mode`,

Reviewer: "Same syntax" means _everything_ after "Mode" below, or something less?  You can include the syntax inline in the paragraph with ```:n:`@qualid {+ {| + | ! | - } } {? : {+ @ident } }` ```

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1253341/114759076-933aab80-9d12-11eb-9140-3eed8e62e7e3.png)

Author: Thanks!

>       and is equivalent to a `Hint Mode` declaration after the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      and is equivalent to a :cmd:`Hint Mode` declaration after the
```

>       at declaration time, using the same syntax as :cmd:`Hint Mode`,
>       and is equivalent to a :cmd:`Hint Mode` declaration after the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      at declaration time, using the same syntax as :cmd:`Hint Mode`.
      It is equivalent to a :cmd:`Hint Mode` declaration after the
```

>       `Class` declaration, except that the `mode` declaration can survive

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      :cmd:`Class` declaration, except that the `mode` declaration can survive
```

      section closing. The setting affects when typeclass resolution can be triggered
      for a class constraint, see :ref:`below <ClassMode>` for details.
      We recommend always setting a mode when introducing a class or using
      a default mode.

>    .. error: Discharging the class @ident would drop its mode declaration. Declare the class outside a section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   .. error:: Discharging the class @ident would drop its mode declaration. Declare the class outside a section.
```

      If a :attr:`mode` attribute is given to a class inside a section, but no

>       `default mode <TypeclassesDefaultMode>` is set, this results in an error at section

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      :ref:`default mode <TypeclassesDefaultMode>` is set, this results in an error at section
```

>       closing since Coq don't know which mode the discharged variables for the class should have.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      closing since Coq doesn't know which mode the discharged variables for the class should have.
```

   Like any command declaring a record, this command supports the
   :attr:`universes(polymorphic)`, :attr:`universes(template)`,
   :attr:`universes(cumulative)`, and :attr:`private(matching)`
   attributes. In addition, it supports the :attr:`modes` attribute.

>    .. attr:: modes
> 
>       Sets the resolution modes of the class at declaration time,
>       using the same syntax as :cmd:`Hint Mode`: :n:`{+, {+ {| + | ! | - } }}`, where
>       multiple modes can be declared, separated by a comma.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   .. attr:: modes "{+ {| + | ! | - } }"

      Sets the resolution modes of the class at declaration time,
      using the same markers as in :cmd:`Hint Mode`.
```

It looks like you support multiple modes in a single string.  Allowing a comma-separated list seems unnecessary.

Author: A mode declaration is a space-separated list of `+ | ! | -`, so we need a comma to separate multiple such lists

Reviewer: `modes "+!"` is either not supported or not equivalent to `modes "+", "!"`?  Does the order of the items make any difference?  And repetitions are pointless but harmless, e.g. "++"?

Please get the right syntax on the `.. attr::` line, though.

Author: No, they are not equivalent. `modes="+, !"` sets two different modes (input and head-not-evar) for a single index typeclass. `modes="+ !"` sets a single mode declaration for a class with two indices. `modes="+ -, - +"` sets two mode declarations for a class with two indices. Repetitions like `modes="!","!"` are useless yes, as `,` models a disjunction, and order does not matter between comma-separated declarations, but of course it does if you have two indices.

Reviewer: If the spaces are required in `modes="+ -, - +"`, that should be mentioned.

I suppose the number of indices is the number of parameters for the class?
If so, might be nice to mention here that the number of parameters should match the class.  Maybe even link to http://localhost:63342/coq2/doc/sphinx/_build/html/addendum/type-classes.html#class-and-instance-declarations.

Author: No, spaces are not significant. I'll add something about matching mode declarations with the parameters

Author: We are already in the section of the manual that deals with class declarations, so a link looks unnecessary here.

   the dependent ones previously (Coq 8.5 and below). This can result in
   quite different performance behaviors of proof search.

   .. _TypeclassesDefaultMode:

> .. opt:: Typeclasses Default Mode {? ( {| "+" | "-" | "!" } ) }.

Reviewer 2: Indeed, this doesn't make any sense. Please change it to:
```suggestion
.. opt:: Typeclasses Default Mode {| "+" | "-" | "!" }.
```

Author: Alright, I get it now.

   This option (unset by default) controls the default mode declaration
   associated to a :cmd:`Class`. If set, the each class declaration uses
   this default mode for *all* its indices, unless an :attr:`mode` attribute

>    is used to set the mode explicitly.

Author: `Set Typeclasses Default Mode.` fails asking for one of `+/-/!`, `Unset Typeclasses Default Mode` unsets it, so I think that's the right syntax? It is maybe not entirely self evident given the grammar that "Unset" can be used.

>    is used to set the mode explicitly.

Reviewer 2: Maybe I know about this too well, but I think the syntax is pretty clearly documented: https://coq.inria.fr/refman/language/core/basic.html#flags-options-and-tables

>    is used to set the mode explicitly.

Reviewer 2: Ah, but Jim's point was that the syntax shown above is incorrect because the argument seems to be optional.

>    is used to set the mode explicitly.

Author: Yeah, it's fine this way. Maybe `option/flag` could (discretly) hyperlink to that page though.

>    is used to set the mode explicitly.

Author: @Zimmi48 is there a canonical way to *name* a warning already?

>    is used to set the mode explicitly.

Reviewer 2: *Somehow my last comment is not shown in the right order (at least to me).*

>is there a canonical way to name a warning already?

Not that I know of.

>Maybe option/flag could (discretly) hyperlink to that page though.

Yes, it would be great if we could have such a mechanism. Feel free to open an issue about that.

>    .. warn:: Using inferred default mode declaration “mode” for “@ident”

Reviewer 2: The actual warning message seems to rather be "Using an inferred default mode: ..."

Also, its documentation should indicate more clearly that the warning is disabled by default and that its name is "class-declaration-default-mode" with a link to the documentation of the warning machinery (so that users know how to turn it on).

Author: That's what we had before. I'll add the link.

>       This (by default disabled) warning informs the user when a mode has been assigned
>       automatically. It can be used to lint a library and ensure all typeclasses
>       have been assigned explicit mode declarations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Indicates that the mode has been assigned
      automatically. It can be used to lint a library and ensure all typeclasses
      have been assigned explicit mode declarations.
```

How about referring to the command used to enable the message?

Author: I thought about that but didn't see other examples of that, how would you do it in markdown? The warning is `class-declaration-default-mode`
